IN THE COLDEST REGIONS OF NORTH AMERICA. DRIVERS TRAVERSE MAN-MADE ROADS OVER FROZEN RIVERS;
DANS LES RÉGIONS LES PLUS FROIDES DE L'AMÉRIQUE DU NORD.
DES CHAUFFEURS EMPRUNTENT DES ROUTES TRACÉES SUR DES RIVIÈRES.
LAKES AND OCEANS OF ICE LESS THAN 30 INCHES THICK IN 65.000 LB. VEHICLES.
DES LACS ET DES OCÉANS DE GLACE DE MOINS DE 80 CENTIMÈTRES D'ÉPAISSEUR
À BORD DE VÉHICULES DE 30 000 KILOS.
THESE TREKS ARE DANGEROUS AND OFTEN FATAL SOME DRIVERS DESCRIBE THEM AS SUICIDE MISSIONS.
CES EXPÉDITIONS SONT DANGEREUSES ET SOUVENT FATALES.
THESE ARE THE SO-CALLED "ICE ROADS"
CERTAINS CHAUFFEURS LES QUALIFIENT DE MISSIONS SUICIDE.
C'EST CE QU'ON APPELLE LES « ROUTES DE GLACE ».
KATKA DIAMOND MINE NORTHERN MANITOBA 56° N. 98% W. 432 MILES BELLOW ARCTIC CIRLE
MINE DE DIAMANTS KATKA NORD DU MANITOBA
56 DEGRÉS N. 98 DEGRÉS O. 695 KILOMÈTRES SOUS LE CERCLE ARCTIQUE
Yeah. Yeah.
Right up there. Right up in here.
Par ici.
There we go.
Ici. les gars. C'est bon.
Aim for the rock!
- Mankins! - Yeah?
Mankins !
You want to tell me why your methane sensors are off?
Pourquoi tes détecteurs de méthane sont coupés ?
I don't know.
J'en sais rien.
Maybe the batteries are dead.
Les piles sont mortes ?
Why don't you get us a canary.
Trouve un canari.
This is no joke.
C'est pas une blague.
These are to alert you to concentrations of methane.
Ça vous alerte en cas de fuite de méthane.
They must stay on.
Ils doivent fonctionner.
Where'd that come from?
Ça venait d'où ?
Sounds like the open pit.
La fosse à ciel ouvert.
We hit a methane pocket.
Une poche de méthane.
That's impossible.
C'est impossible.
Everybody. out! Everybody. out!
Tout le monde dehors ! On évacue !
- Come on! - Go!
Vite !
Go. go.
No!
Non !
Help me!
Aidez-moi !
Go. go. go!
Emmenez-le !
♪ All I do is drive Drive. drive ♪
♪ Try to stay alive ♪
♪ My mind on my load ♪
♪ I got nothing in common With any man ♪ ♪ Who's home every day At five ♪
PEMBINA. DAKOTA DU NORD
♪ All I do is drive Drive. drive. drive. drive ♪
What you got. Gurty?
Y a un souci. Gurty ?
Come on. you can say it. You can say it.
Allez. Tu peux le dire.
We will sort right here. and they will save their hands right there.
On va arrêter ici et leurs mains vont rester là-bas.
The coffee saved with water for me.
Le café est gardé pour moi !
For him. For them.
Pour lui. pour eux !
Is it coffee. Gurty?
C'est du café ?
This how you guys still get your kicks. huh?
C'est votre idée de l'éclate ?
Walk away. Gurty. They're idiots.
Laisse tomber. Gurty. C'est des idiots.
Hey...
how's it feel to be best friends with a retard?
Ça fait quoi d'être le pote
d'un attardé ?
He's my brother. Johansson.
C'est mon frère. Johansson.
And I told you never to call him that.
Et n'utilise jamais ce mot.
Retard.
"Attardé".
McCann. get in here!
McCann.
amène-toi.
I know what you get. but I talk with a lot of hands for hands sometimes.
J'y peux rien si je parle avec trop de mots. des fois.
Gurty.
We're fired.
On est virés.
But tires to a point rotated go.
Mais les écrous doivent être tournés.
Let someone else rotate them. We're fired.
Quelqu'un d'autre le fera. On est virés.
Pack your shit up. Skeeter too. Come on.
Prends tes affaires et Moustique. On y va.
I don't want.
CENTRE MÉDICAL POUR VÉTÉRANS
Je veux pas !
Me never been in. and then today we don't.
- Tu avais dit jamais. - Je sais.
Gurty. I don't care. You're going in.
Ne discute pas. Tu y vas.
They're going to look after you.
Ils vont s'occuper de toi.
We've been together a long time.
Je l'ai avec moi depuis longtemps.
but he can't hold a job. and I can't carry him anymore.
mais il ne garde aucun emploi et je ne m'en sors plus.
I don't have a lot of tire left on my own treads.
Mes pneus ne sont pas inusables.
Will this help make him self-sufficient. doctor?
Vous pensez pouvoir le rendre autonome ?
I can't promise anything with language cognition scores like these. but we'll see what we can do.
Ses troubles du langage sont importants. mais on va voir ça.
Hi. John. I'm Dr. Talbot. Pleased to meet you.
Bonjour. John.
Thank you. I appreciate it and hope the world lasts for you.
Dr Talbot. Ravi de te connaître.
Merci. Long monde à vous.
He's saying hello.
Il dit bonjour.
How long to go with them? With them for the time over.
Combien je dois rester. jusqu'au temps fini.
For them. For me.
pour eux et pour moi ?
He's asking what all this entails. doctor.
Il demande si ce sera long.
Well. just a few tests.
Le temps de l'évaluer.
If he qualifies for rehabilitation. we arrange housing.
S'il peut être réinséré. il sera logé.
Should take no more than an hour.
Ça prendra une heure maximum.
Skeeter.
Moustique.
You can't bring Skeeter in here.
Tu ne peux pas l'avoir ici.
Let them poke and prod you. It's no big deal.
Ils vont te pincer ici et là. c'est pas la mort.
I'll see you in an hour.
A dans une heure.
Hey. don't be a big baby.
Ne fais pas le bébé.
-Thanks. Doctor. -You're welcome. John. the examination room is just down the hall.
- Merci. docteur. - Je vous en prie.
La salle d'examen est par là.
Psych evaluator Hackman.
dial 617.
Psych evaluator Hackman dial 617.
No readings indicated a methane gas pocket? So you're saying.
La poche de méthane n'a pas été détectée ?
as general manager of this facility.
Vous. le directeur de la mine.
that this was out of the blue?
vous n'avez rien vu venir ?
Completely out of the blue. sir. We think the gas built up behind the stoping shields
Absolument rien. monsieur.
Le gaz devait être derrière les boucliers
where our PDM sensors couldn't pick it up.
et nos capteurs ne pouvaient pas le repérer.
I'm briefing the prime minister in 20 minutes. Listen carefully.
Le Premier ministre attend mon rapport. Ecoutez bien.
No one goes in any of the tunnels until that gas is drilled and capped.
Personne ne descend dans les tunnels tant qu'on n'a pas extrait le gaz.
Understood. sir. Understood.
- Compris. monsieur. - Compris.
Let me ask you. how do we drill and cap a methane pocket without a wellhead?
Comment est-on censés évacuer une poche de méthane
sans tête de puits ?
I'll get back to you.
Je vous rappelle.
Get me the air force base in Winnipeg.
Base aérienne de Winnipeg ?
officer in charge of civilian emergencies.
Passez-moi l'officier responsable des urgences.
Airlift a 30-ton gas wellhead? Impossible.
Une tête de puits de 30 tonnes ?
Impossible.
And there's no runway up at Katka to land a C-130 on.
Les C-130 ne peuvent pas atterrir là-bas
and our largest choppers are Chinooks. which can't carry a 30-ton wellhead. Payloads of that nature have to go by truck.
et nos plus gros hélicos ne supporteraient pas un tel poids.
Il faut passer par la route.
Jill. that young field officer in Winnipeg is supposed
Jill. le jeune officier à Winnipeg
to know everything about ice road transports up to the northern mines?
spécialiste des routes de glace vers les mines du Nord...
- Max Tully? - Yes. him.
- Max Tully ? - C'est ça.
The prime minister will see you now.
Le Premier ministre vous attend.
Just a sec.
Un instant.
Max Tully?
Max Tully ?
Mr. Goldenrod!
M. Goldenrod !
What?
Quoi ?
I'm Max Tully with Mining Safety.
Max Tully. sécurité minière.
Could I have a word with you? It's about Katka Mine.
C'est au sujet de la mine Katka.
What about Katka?
Mais encore ?
This morning. tunnel six collapsed.
Le tunnel 6 s'est écroulé.
I need an 18-foot gas wellhead. 300 feet of pipe delivered up there in under 30 hours.
Il leur faut une tête de puits de 6 m et 100 m de tuyaux d'ici 30 heures.
Eighteen-foot gas wellhead and 300 feet of pipe?
Une tête de puits de 6 m et 100 m de tuyaux ?
Goddamn. that's a hell of a lot of weight. son.
C'est foutrement lourd. fiston.
-Can you make it happen? -What do I look like. God?
C'est faisable ?
We're three weeks into April.
Tu m'as pris pour Dieu ? On est fin avril.
All my drivers are on their way to Hawaii.
Tous mes chauffeurs
or wherever the hell it is that they go during the off-season.
sont à Hawaï ou Dieu sait où pendant la saison morte.
Say. for conversation's sake. you have replacements.
Imaginons qu'on ait des remplaçants.
We'll say for conversation's sake that these rigs have wings. What have you been smoking?
Imaginons que ce camion ait des ailes. Tu as fumé quoi ?
March 10th. the season ended. That's five weeks ago.
La saison est finie depuis 5 semaines.
Didn't old-timers back in the '60s drive the lake into April?
Avant. on traversait le lac en avril.
Yeah. and most of them died doing it.
En y laissant sa peau.
So it's really that dangerous.
C'est très dangereux ?
Yeah. It's that dangerous.
Oui. Très dangereux.
Okay. okay. It's a stupid idea. Sorry for asking.
C'était idiot. désolé.
Hey. hey. kid. Come here.
Reviens. petit.
I know all the miners up there in Katka. I know their families.
Je connais tous ces mineurs et leur famille.
So it's personal with me.
Donc.
ça me tient à coeur.
If I can get drivers and a mechanic...
Si je trouve des chauffeurs
et un mécano
let's say 3:00 this afternoon.
pour 15h
and if you can get the provincial government to open up the ice road.
et si tu obtiens la réouverture de la route de glace...
two very big ifs...
Ça fait deux énormes "si".
we'll do it.
On le fera.
Thank you.
Merci.
Shit.
Et merde.
Hi. Um...
Bonjour.
-Excuse me. -Yes?
Excusez-moi.
I brought my brother in this morning. Vocational rehab?
J'ai déposé mon frère ce matin. Réinsertion professionnelle.
McCann. 813.
He's still being evaluated. sir.
L'évaluation est en cours.
The doctor said an hour. It's been two and a half.
Ça devait durer une heure et ça fait 2h30.
We're a little short-staffed today. so please take a seat.
On manque d'effectifs. Asseyez-vous.
Hey! Sir?
Monsieur !
Sir!
Get Security on 2-East. please.
Appelle la sécurité.
Hey. bro.
Salut. frérot.
What's happening?
Qu'y a-t-il ?
What is all this?
C'est quoi. tout ça ?
Oh. geez.
Bon sang.
What is going on here?
Que se passe-t-il ?
Xanax and Lexapro. right? Probably some Oxy for good measure? You know. to take the edge off?
Antidépresseur et benzo ? Et un opioïde par précaution ?
Histoire de l'assommer.
-They're for PTSD. -I know what they're for.
- Ça traite les TSPT. - Je sais.
Did you ask for these. Gurty?
Tu les as demandés ?
He has insomnia. hypertension. makes inappropriate outbursts.
Il est insomniaque. hypertendu et agité.
Oh. kiss my Irish ass.
Dites ça à mon cul d'Irlandais.
Post-traumatic stress disorder is real.
Le stress post-traumatique
I can Section 502 him.
est une réalité. Je peux le garder de force.
Do it.
Allez-y.
The press'll love another story about how the VA overprescribes opioids to America's heroes.
La presse adore les histoires de héros de guerre gavés d'opiacés.
You are making a grave mistake.
Vous faites une grave erreur.
You try and stop us from leaving here. so are you.
Vous aussi si vous pensez nous retenir.
Wait. wait. wait. wait.
Pas si vite !
Here. put this on.
Mets ça.
It's cold.
Il fait froid.
Wait. here. Here.
Attends. Tiens.
Come on. your pants.
Ton pantalon !
Ken-- Kenworth.
Kenworth.
More Ken.
Plus de Ken.
Take us great that owned we.
On serait grands avec un comme ça.
-We. -Sure. sure.
à nous.
It would be great if we owned our own rig.
C'est sûr. ce serait bien d'avoir notre propre camion.
Did you win the lottery?
Tu as gagné à la loterie ?
Did you happen to win the Pick-6 and not tell me?
Tu es un winner et je suis pas au courant ?
This thing costs 200 grand. Gurty.
Un bahut pareil coûte 200 000 $ !
200.
200 000.
URGENT WINNIPEG
Cherche chauffeurs route de glace Contact : J. Goldenrod
Ever been to Winnipeg. Gurty?
Tu es déjà allé à Winnipeg ?
It's just 70 miles.
C'est à seulement 100 bornes.
"Win a pig."
Winner paye.
We might. partner.
Ça se peut. mon pote.
With any luck. today we might just win a pig.
Si on a de la chance. on pourrait être des winners.
News all day. every day.
Les infos 24 h sur 24.
Our top story: twin explosions rocked
A la une. la double explosion
northern Manitoba's Katka mine this morning.
survenue dans une mine du Manitoba ce matin.
killing eight miners and leaving 26 more unaccounted for.
8 mineurs sont morts et 26 sont portés disparus.
The cause of the explosion has not been determined.
Les causes de la catastrophe sont encore inconnues.
Hi. I'm calling from Trapper Transpo in Winnipeg. We're in an emergency and need drivers.
Ici les transports Trapper. On a besoin de chauffeurs...
Tully. give me 50 bucks. You got 50 bucks?
Tully. tu aurais 50 $ ?
-Yeah. I do. -One of my drivers
Oui.
-just became available. Thanks. -Fantastic. What's it for?
J'ai un chauffeur dispo.
- Merci. - C'est pour quoi ?
-Bail. -What?
Sa caution.
Told you this wasn't going to be easy.
Je t'ai dit qu'on galérerait.
Sunglasses and keys.
Lunettes de soleil et clés.
You protest and throw rocks again.
Si vous jouez encore les agitatrices.
we'll arrest you again.
on vous embarquera à nouveau.
We're going to keep doing it until you get off our land.
On continuera tant que vous occuperez nos terres.
The city owns that parking lot.
Ce parking appartient à la ville.
I was referring to North America.
Je parlais de toute l'Amérique du Nord.
See you soon.
A bientôt.
How's the fight for justice going?
La lutte pour la justice avance ?
Keep building casinos.
Continuez à construire des casinos
you'll beat the white man without a shot fired.
et l'homme blanc sera battu sans un coup de feu.
You heard about the cave-in up at Katka?
Tu as entendu pour Katka ?
Yeah. it was on the TV in there.
C'est passé à la télé.
I still haven't heard from Cody. though. I'm worried sick.
Je suis morte d'inquiétude pour Cody.
He's on the list of those missing.
Il fait partie des disparus.
I'm putting together a little rescue mission.
Je monte une mission de sauvetage.
Ice road?
La route de glace ?
Yup.
Ouais.
I'm in.
J'en suis.
Let's get a head count. Cody.
On va se compter.
Cody.
One.
Un.
- Two. - Three.
- Deux. - Trois.
-Four. -Five.
Quatre.
Cinq.
-Six. -Seven.
Six.
Sept.
-Eight. -Nine.
Huit.
-Ten -Eleven.
- Neuf. - Dix.
-Twelve. -Thirteen.
- Onze. - Douze.
Treize.
I got a wife and kids. Jim. How would I even explain this to them?
J'ai une femme et des enfants. Ils comprendraient pas.
No one's going to force you to go. Dave. I understand. it's not for everyone. Thanks.
Personne te force à y aller. Tu n'as pas à te justifier.
Merci.
-What do you got? -Half are retired.
Ça donne quoi ?
half have never seen an ice road.
Des retraités ou des débutants.
Next. there are two guys up from North Dakota. Brothers.
Les suivants sont du Dakota du Nord. Deux frères.
Thank you.
Merci.
Which one of you guys is Mike McCann? I am.
Lequel de vous est Mike McCann ?
C'est moi.
You're the driver? He's the mechanic? Yup. One of the best.
Tu conduis et il est mécano ?
C'est un as.
Says you had experience on the ice road in the Northwest Territory.
Tu as fait la route de glace du Nord-Ouest.
That's pretty serious country. What'd you drive?
C'est du sport. Tu conduisais quoi ?
Anything on wheels.
Tout ce qui a des roues.
Says you've had 11 gigs in the last eight years.
Tu as changé de boîte onze fois en 8 ans.
which ain't exactly inspiring my confidence.
Ça m'inspire pas confiance.
There some reason that you can't hold down a job?
Pourquoi tu gardes pas tes boulots ?
My... My brother's a veteran. Got injured in Iraq.
Mon frère est un vétéran. Il a été blessé en Iraq.
He's got this thing called aphasia. which is-- I know what it is.
Il est atteint d'aphasie. C'est...
Je connais.
Long story short.
Pour la faire courte.
for the past eight years I've been his caretaker. for lack of a better word. and...
depuis 8 ans. je suis son aidant. J'ai pas trouvé de meilleur mot.
-And we-- -I get it. I get it. I ain't got time. What's his name?
J'ai pigé. Le temps presse. Comment il s'appelle ?
Call him Gurty.
Appelez-le Gurty.
Gurty. Hey.
Gurty.
Gurty. Jim Goldenrod.
Moi. c'est Jim Goldenrod.
Grab your tool set. follow me.
Prends ta boîte à outils et suis-moi.
Right here.
Installe-toi.
I want you to pull the rocker arm shaft.
Retire l'arbre à cames.
I'm going to time you.
Je vais te chronométrer.
Say when.
Quand tu veux.
Go.
C'est parti.
Sweet Jesus.
Doux Jésus.
Okay. Tully.
Tully.
send everybody else home and call Katka.
Renvoie les autres candidats.
- I got my crew. - Where's Tantoo?
j'ai mon équipe.
Où est Tantoo ?
She's re-parking somebody else's rig.
Elle déplace un camion mal garé.
She seems a little young.
C'est une gamine.
-I'll have contracts drawn up. -Thank you.
- Je vous fais les contrats. - Merci.
Enough.
Arrêtez.
Anyone not out by now isn't coming out.
Ceux qui sont encore dessous ne sortiront pas.
You guys hearing that?
Vous entendez ?
What is that?
That sounds like tap code.
On dirait du morse.
You men. give us a hand.
Venez. Aidez-nous.
Somebody had to have been in the Army. Navy. Cub Scouts.
Il y a forcément un ancien de l'armée. de la marine ou des scouts.
What are they saying. Cody?
Ça dit quoi. Cody ?
"How many are alive?"
"Combien de survivants ?"
Look. if you do hear something. -you call me. all right? -Yes. sir.
Bon. S'ils répondent. prévenez-moi.
Bien. monsieur.
Uh...
26... alive.
"26...
Fred. listen to me. Listen to me.
"survivants."
Fred. écoutez bien.
You tell them we're going to cap that methane with a wellhead. all right? And then we're going to blast.
Dites-leur qu'on va capter le méthane avec une tête de puits
et le faire exploser.
You tell them those wellheads are coming ASAP. all right? -Okay. -Okay.
Les têtes de puits seront bientôt là.
Wellheads arrive ASAP.
"Têtes de puits bientôt là."
What do they mean. ASAP?
Ça veut dire quoi. "bientôt" ?
Six hours?
Dans 6 heures ?
Twelve hours?
12 heures ?
What if it's 30?
Et si c'est 30 ?
Then we're dead.
On est morts.
The 26 includes Lampard.
Lampard fait partie des 26 ?
Yup.
Oui.
Mankins?
Mankins ?
He's alive.
Il est en vie.
So the question is time.
Reste le facteur temps.
I mean. no one's ever lasted over 30 hours under permafrost.
On ne survit pas plus de 30 heures sous le permafrost.
Well. the government's got that ice road open. Safety supervisor guy. he's even managed to secure transpo.
Le gouvernement a fait rouvrir la route de glace.
Le gars de la sécurité minière a même trouvé un transporteur.
Jim Goldenrod.
If Jim Goldenrod believes 25-ton wellheads can roll across a frozen lake in April.
S'il pense qu'un lac gelé supportera un chargement de 25 tonnes en avril.
I suppose we should believe it too.
je suppose qu'on doit le croire.
All right. These wellheads are beasts. Eighteen feet long. 25 ton heavy.
Ces têtes de puits sont des monstres. 6 m de long.
25 tonnes.
We got three rigs. all identically equipped
On a trois camions chargés à l'identique.
so that we can achieve tactical redundancy.
C'est le principe de la redondance tactique.
We're taking every chance to save those miners' lives.
On doit tout tenter pour sauver ces mineurs.
- Tactical re-what-ancy? - Redundancy.
La quoi tactique ?
Redondance.
Each rig doesn't need the others to complete the mission.
Aucun camion ne dépend des autres.
Gold star to the man from North Dakota.
Bravo. le Dakota du Nord.
One. two. three. The gold one is mine.
Je prends le jaune.
You two can paper/rock/scissors for the red one. She's the one with the comfy seats.
Tirez le rouge au sort.
Il a des sièges ergonomiques.
It's all yours.
Il est à toi.
The contracts. -One for you. -Thanks.
Les contrats. Un pour vous.
One for you. And you.
Pour vous. Et vous.
Two hundred thousand split four ways.
200 000 partagés en quatre.
Any questions?
Des questions ?
What happens to anyone that doesn't make it? To their money?
Si certains tombent en rade. à qui ira leur part ?
Paragraph four. Their share goes to those that do.
Paragraphe 4. A ceux qui réussiront.
-That's pretty cold. -Sounds fair to me.
C'est raide.
Who's that guy?
Mais juste. C'est qui. lui ?
Mr. Varnay.
M. Varnay.
Tom Varnay. Katka International insurance Group.
Tom Varnay. Assurances Katka International.
Tully. these are my trucks. I say who goes.
Personne ne monte sans mon autorisation.
They're your trucks. but it's Katka's insurance. So if one goes in the lake. it's on Katka.
Contractuellement. en cas de pépin. c'est Katka qui paye.
-He's not taking a cut? -No. no. no. Absolutely not.
Il touche une part ?
Absolument pas.
I'm just along for the ride and to protect Katka's investment.
Je vous accompagne pour protéger nos intérêts.
All right. you'll ride with Tantoo in the black Kenworth.
Entendu. Montez avec Tantoo
Put your gear in there. You two will find safety bags
dans le Kenworth noir.
in the locker area. It's time to load up.
Prenez des sacs de flottaison et chargez vos affaires.
We'll fuel the rigs and we'll push in 15.
On fait le plein et on part dans 15 minutes.
Thank you. Thanks.
Merci.
-Thank you. -Hello.
Salut.
Fifty grand apiece times two.
50 000 multipliés par deux.
That's more than enough for a down payment on a rig like this.
Largement assez pour l'acompte d'un bahut comme celui-ci.
Sorry I ripped up your brochure. by the way.
Pardon d'avoir déchiré ta brochure. au fait.
I'm going to put Skeeter up front with us. okay?
Je mets Moustique
devant avec nous.
Where are you?
Où es-tu ?
Tantoo. is it?
Tantoo. c'est ça ?
Tully says you're Cree.
Tully m'a dit que tu étais Crie.
What's your name mean?
Ton nom veut dire quoi ?
Name mean...
Vouloir dire
"like to drive alone."
"qui aime voyager seule".
Mount up!
En selle !
Use the head if you have to now. We're on a bull run.
Allez pisser maintenant. on se met en mode cowboy.
See you on the flip side. Tully.
On se voit au retour.
We'll run with 200-foot separations.
On va garder
leapfrogging every few hours.
60 m entre nous et passer devant à tour de rôle.
-Everyone good with that? -Yup.
Ça vous va ?
Oui.
Affirmativo.
First leg:
Première portion :
Lake Winnipeg ice road. About 300 miles. 20 hours.
route de glace du lac Winnipeg. 500 km. 20 heures.
Second leg: up and over Manitoba Pass.
Deuxième portion : col du Manitoba.
Third leg: Manitonka ice road to Old Manitonka Bridge.
Troisième :
route de glace de Manitonka jusqu'au vieux pont.
Twenty-three hours total.
23 heures au total.
What's wrong with New Manitonka?
Et le nouveau pont ?
The new bridge would be preferred. but getting up to New Manitonka is another 90 kilometers.
Ce serait préférable. mais ça ferait
un détour de 90 km.
That puts us outside the miners' oxygen window.
On dépasserait la fenêtre de survie des mineurs.
Old Manitonka was built in the '60s.
Ce pont date des années 60.
so that's rated 75.000 pounds?
Il est pas limité à 34 tonnes ?
Yup. We're going to be shaving it close.
Si. Ça va être chaud.
Here we go. people.
C'est parti.
ROUTE HIVERNALE DU LAC WINNIPEG FERMÉE
Oh. shit.
Quelle merde !
You said 120 meters that way.
On a 120 m
80 that way?
par là. et 80 par là ?
Give or take.
Plus ou moins.
Pretty decent atmospheric volume.
C'est un bon volume d'air.
Yeah. except we got 26 sets of lungs down here.
Sauf qu'on a 26 paires de poumons.
- Hey. Jim. - Yeah.
Dis donc. Jim.
I thought I heard every trucker's expression. so what the heck's a bull run?
Je pensais connaître tout le jargon du métier.
C'est quoi. le "mode cowboy" ?
Bull run? Well. back in Minnesota. all the livestock haulers never used to stop. because bulls. you see. got to be standing
Autrefois. les convois de bétail ne s'arrêtaient jamais.
when they're being transported.
Les taureaux doivent rester en mouvement.
As soon as one gets tired and lies down.
Si un taureau se couche.
then the others will step on him and kill him.
les autres le piétinent.
All livestock haulers know this. so they never stop for anything.
Il ne faut donc s'arrêter sous aucun prétexte.
Ah. I see.
Je vois.
I'm learning something tonight.
J'aurai appris un truc.
♪ My eyes are open wide ♪
♪ I just passed a Jimmy And a White ♪
♪ I've been passing everything In sight ♪
♪ Six days on the road ♪
♪ And I'm gonna Make it home tonight ♪
♪ Well. it seems Like a month ♪
♪ Since I kissed my baby Goodbye ♪
♪ I could have A lot of women ♪
♪ But I'm not like Some of the guys ♪
♪ Yeah. a big eight-wheeler Running down the track ♪
♪ Means your true love He ain't coming back ♪
♪ 'Cause I'm moving on ♪
Hey. Jim. how are you feeling about the ice?
Comment tu sens la glace ?
Cold. hard and stiff.
Froide et bien ferme.
I wish we weren't running in bright sunshine tomorrow.
Dommage qu'on doive rouler au soleil demain.
♪ Said hello To the southland ♪
♪ We're coming to you ♪
♪ And we're moving on ♪
♪ Oh. hear my song ♪
You want a sandwich?
Un sandwich ?
You haven't eaten since we left.
Tu n'as rien avalé.
You'll know when I'm hungry. It's very unattractive.
Quand j'aurai faim. vous le verrez. C'est pas joli.
You get cranky?
Tu deviens mauvaise ?
Worse. I act white.
Pire qu'une Blanche.
Tully said you and Goldenrod had a falling out.
Tully m'a parlé de ton embrouille avec Goldenrod.
That wasn't a big deal.
C'était pas grand-chose.
Sounded like a big deal.
C'est pas ce qu'il a dit.
He fired me. I got upset and took a swing at him. It's old news.
Il m'a virée et je l'ai mal pris. C'est du passé.
How's that Kenworth. boys?
Votre Kenworth vous plaît ?
She's a fine ride. Jim.
C'est un super camion.
Thinking we might get one just like it.
On va en acheter un pareil.
Well. what you gonna call her?
Il aura un nom ?
Take your time. boys. Naming a big rig's a sacred thing.
Prenez votre temps. Le nom d'un bahut.
c'est sacré.
What'll we name our truck. Gurty?
On l'appellera comment. Gurty ?
Truck-truck-truck.
Ba... ba... bahut.
You hear that?
Tu as entendu ?
"Truck-truck-truck." I like it. It's got a ring to it.
"Baba-bahut". ça me plaît. Très accrocheur.
It is beautiful out here.
C'est magnifique par ici.
Is this really that dangerous?
C'est vraiment dangereux ?
It doesn't seem like a big deal.
Ça n'a pas l'air.
What exactly do you do?
C'est quoi. votre job ?
I'm an actuary. A risk assessment professional. if we're being formal.
Je suis expert risques en assurances. puisqu'on se présente.
Well. Mr. Varnay.
M. Varnay.
hauling heavy cargo on ice in April is a big deal.
conduire un poids lourd
sur la glace en avril est un défi.
See Custer's head there?
Vous voyez la tête de Custer ?
Tips us off to pressure waves.
Elle réagit aux ondes de pression.
You go too fast. you create a pressure wave.
Si on va trop vite. on génère une onde.
In you go.
et on plonge.
You go too slow. the ice can't handle the pounds per square inch on your tire.
Trop lentement. tout le poids porte sur les roues.
In you go.
et on plonge.
What the hell was that? Over.
C'était quoi ?
A toi.
Sounds like my head gasket.
Je crois que c'est ma culasse.
Come on. kid. Come on!
Allez. mon grand. Allez !
Sweet Jesus. that ain't good.
Doux Jésus. c'est pas bon.
Shit.
Merde.
Whoa. what the hell are you doing?
Tu fais quoi ?
Going back.
Je recule.
I thought we weren't stopping for anything. You know. all that "bull run" stuff?
On doit pas s'arrêter. Pense aux cowboys.
I said. we're going back.
On recule. point barre.
Goddamn it!
Je le crois pas !
Gurty's going to run diagnostics while we hook up.
Gurty va chercher la panne
We'll pull together.
et on va s'arrimer pour te tracter à deux.
Use the nylon snatch pulleys on the rear
Attachez les poulies par des sangles à l'arrière.
so the rigs can swing.
pour donner du mou !
Is this... this going to work?
Ça va marcher ?
How far are we gonna... gonna tow him? All the way to the mine?
On va le remorquer jusqu'à la mine ?
Do us all a favor. Mr. Varnay.
Soyez gentil
and get back in your truck.
et remontez dans votre camion.
Shit. Come on.
Merde. Allez !
Oh...
Gurty!
Gurty !
Clear out.
Dégage !
What happened?
Qu'y a-t-il ?
Rear trailer tires went in.
Il s'enfonce à l'arrière.
Oh. shit.
What the hell's going on?
Qu'est-ce qui se passe ?
Come on. Jim.
Allez. quoi !
Jim! Jim! Jim!
Jim !
Tow line's got me! Cut me loose. My leg's broken.
Je suis coincé !
Coupe la sangle.
Cut me loose or you're all going in!
Vite. ou vous coulerez !
The tow line's got me and my leg's broken. Do it.
Je suis coincé et ma jambe est cassée.
-Do it! -I can't.
Vas-y !
Je peux pas.
Do it! Do it!
Vas-y !
Jesus.
Bon Dieu.
Holy shit!
Putain de merde !
It's spreading out.
Ça s'étend.
Meaning what?
Ça veut dire quoi ?
Meaning it's going to keep cracking for two. maybe three thousand meters.
Que les fissures vont se propager sur 2000 ou 3000 m.
That's over a mile.
C'est énorme.
We'll outrun it. Let's move!
Il faut foncer. En route !
We got to unhook first.
On doit enlever le câble.
There's no time.
Pas le temps.
We're going to have to run tied together. Go!
On devra rouler attachés. On y va !
Get your harness on.
Mettez le harnais.
Mike. come in. We got to hike up the speed. Over.
Mike. on doit accélérer. A toi.
Roger.
Reçu.
Mike. come in. We got to run faster. Roger. Gurty. running board.
- On doit aller plus vite. - Reçu.
Gurty. Marchepied.
-Get out. On the running board. -Why? So if we go through. we can jump clear.
- Allez sur le marchepied. - Pourquoi ?
Pour pouvoir sauter.
Got a pressure wave ahead of me.
Onde de pression devant !
Well. I got one hell of an ice crack behind me here. so how do you want to die?
Ça s'effondre derrière moi. Tu préfères mourir comment ?
Slush bed at 200 yards. Get in and buckle up.
Congère à 200 m ! Remontez et attachez-vous.
Hang on. pal. This is going to get ugly.
Accroche-toi. Ça va secouer.
This is not good.
C'est pas bon.
This is not good. This is not good!
pas bon du tout !
I don't like this!
J'aime pas ça !
Shit!
Merde !
I've got your seat belt.
Coupe ta ceinture.
You okay. pal?
Ça va. mon grand ?
We're finished.
On est foutus.
It stopped.
Ça s'est arrêté.
Yeah.
It stopped!
Ça s'est arrêté !
We capsized for a reason.
Il fallait qu'on se renverse.
Now our weight's displaced evenly instead of on the tires.
Notre poids s'est réparti et ne porte plus uniquement sur les roues.
So based on seven liters per minute. per man...
Disons 7 litres par minute et par homme.
Seven liters?
7 litres ?
That's all a grown man breathes?
Un adulte n'inspire que ça ?
When at rest. the figure doubles with physical exertion.
Au repos. Ça double lors d'un effort.
Hey. Cody. can I ask you something?
Cody.
Je peux te poser une question ?
-Sure. -When the mine blew up.
Vas-y.
I said we hit a methane pocket
Au moment de l'explosion. j'ai pensé à une poche de méthane
and you said "That's impossible."
et tu as dit : "C'est impossible."
Why?
Pourquoi ?
It's still settling.
Ça secoue encore.
Air compressor.
"Compresseur d'air".
Thank God. they're coming through.
C'est bon. ils arrivent.
Failed.
"Echec".
Hey. what's the story. Cody?
Du nouveau. Cody ?
Yeah. What'd they say?
Ils disent quoi ?
They say they're still working on it.
Ils cherchent une solution.
- Cody. - Yeah?
Cody.
You didn't answer my question.
Tu ne m'as pas répondu.
Why is it impossible we hit a methane pocket?
Pourquoi ça ne peut pas être une poche de méthane ?
Because I was told it would never happen.
Ils ont dit que ça n'arriverait pas.
By who?
Qui ?
Who told you that?
Qui t'a dit ça ?
Cody.
Easy. boys! Easy! Get him out!
Doucement. les gars. Dégagez-les !
Easy!
Doucement !
Cody!
Cody !
Whoa! Whoa!
SOS. SOS.
41 .40.
41.4-0.
Ice road north of 53.
Route de glace au nord de la 53.
Kenworth through the ice.
Un camion a sombré.
Repeat: Kenworth through the ice.
Je répète : un camion a sombré.
Copy. Are there survivors?
Reçu. Des survivants ?
Negative.
Négatif.
We are responding. thank you.
On s'en occupe. Merci.
Wait. wait. wait. wait. What about us?
Minute.
Et nous ?
What about us?
Nous. quoi ?
We're heading back. right?
On fait demi-tour. non ?
-Back? -Yeah.
Demi-tour ?
That's what I said.
Oui. C'est ce que j'ai dit.
The ice is bound to be thinner to the south. not thicker.
La glace va fondre au sud. pas épaissir.
We still have two deliverable wellheads. Tactical redundancy. remember?
Il nous reste deux têtes de puits. Redondance tactique.
And we're more than halfway there.
On a fait la moitié du chemin.
What do you think. Gurty?
Qu'en dis-tu. Gurty ?
Attaboy. Are you coming with. Tantoo?
C'est bien. Tu en es. Tantoo ?
-Hell. yeah. -What? This is ridiculous.
Grave.
You're all going to die.
C'est ridicule. Vous allez tous mourir.
You want to go back. go back. I suggest you do it quick.
Faites demi-tour si vous voulez. Mais ne traînez pas.
Nichiiwad.
Un nichiiwad.
The big one.
Il est énorme.
Drop 50 degrees. we'll pick up 8 to 10 centimeters of new ice.
On va perdre 10 degrés.
Il va y avoir 8 à 10 cm de glace fraîche.
Let's get the rigs upright and haul ass.
On redresse les camions et on fonce.
We're back in business.
C'est reparti !
You're out of your minds. All of you!
Vous êtes dingues. tous les trois.
Wait. wait. wait.
Attendez.
It appears you're the new leader here. so--
C'est vous qui dirigez maintenant...
I'm not the leader of anything.
Je ne dirige rien du tout.
Everyone's on their own.
C'est chacun pour soi.
Fine. Whatever.
D'accord. Peu importe.
You're not curious about back there. what happened?
Ce qui s'est passé ne vous paraît pas étrange ?
We saw what happened.
On a vu l'accident.
No. I'm talking about the seized-up engine.
Je parle du moteur qui s'est grippé.
Go on.
Continuez.
How well do you know her? Tantoo?
Qu'est-ce que vous savez de Tantoo ?
Met her first time yesterday. Why?
Je ne la connais que depuis hier. Pourquoi ?
Mind answering a couple of questions?
On peut te parler ?
You worked for Jim Goldenrod. what. two years?
Tu as bossé pour Jim Goldenrod deux ans ?
Two and a half.
Deux ans et demi.
Why'd it end?
Pourquoi ça s'est fini ?
I used his rig on the weekend without permission.
J'ai pris son camion un week-end sans demander.
So you're a thief. I'm not a thief.
- Donc tu es une voleuse. - Non.
Hey. I was hauling banners for a demon--
J'en avais besoin pour une manif...
What is this your business?
En quoi ça vous regarde ?
You weren't a happy camper. were you? When he fired you?
Tu n'as pas vraiment apprécié qu'il te vire.
No. I... Look. just--
Non.
I've never seen a Kenworth with less than 10k on the odometer
Je n'ai jamais vu un Kenworth avec moins de 10 000 km au compteur
-just up and quit. have you? -No.
tomber en rade. Et toi ?
Non.
Most diesel engines don't seize on their own.
Un diesel ne se grippe pas comme ça.
Unless they burn gasoline.
Sauf s'il pompe de l'essence.
What's this about?
C'est quoi. ce délire ?
You dosed Goldenrod's rig with gas while we were loading up.
Tu as mis de l'essence
I saw you next to the pump.
dans son camion avant le départ.
You said you were checking the tire pressure.
Tu étais près des pompes. soi-disant pour vérifier les pneus.
That is a goddamn lie.
C'est des conneries.
You were going to take us all out. weren't you? So you could claim the whole 200 grand.
Tu comptais tous nous éliminer. pour toucher la totalité de la prime.
No. I don't know what you're talking about.
C'est n'importe quoi !
Who else. then? It wasn't me. Wasn't Gurty. Wasn't him.
Ça ne peut être que toi. Pas moi. ni Gurty. ni lui.
He works for the company that's paying us. This is not about the money for me. you idiots!
Il bosse pour la boîte qui nous paye.
God. my brother is in that mine.
Je fais pas ça pour le fric. crétins.
Mon frère est dans la mine.
And the longer that we stand here. the closer he is to dying.
Si on reste plantés là.
-so if you could just move-- -She's lying.
il mourra. alors poussez-vous.
You can't trust these people.
Elle ment. Ces gens-là sont fourbes.
Call Katka. His name is Cody Mantooth.
Appelle Katka. Il s'appelle Cody Mantooth.
We have different fathers.
On n'a pas le même père.
God. "these people"? You're a racist asshole...
Ces gens-là ?
-You're not going anywhere. -Look. just get out--
Sale connard raciste.
Tu restes ici.
Laissez-moi.
-You're not going anywhere. -Fine.
Tu restes ici.
Hey. hey. hey. Whoa. whoa. whoa. whoa.
D'accord.
We call the company and check your story.
On va vérifier ton histoire.
Yeah. and then go fuck yourself.
Vous l'aurez bien profond.
Tie her up. Gurty.
Attache-la. Gurty.
Yeah. Tully. it's Mike.
Tully. c'est Mike.
I just heard about Goldenrod from County Emergency. what happened?
On m'a prévenu pour Goldenrod. Que s'est-il passé ?
We think Tantoo dosed Jim's rig with gasoline.
On pense que Tantoo a mis de l'essence dans son réservoir.
Are you kidding? That's worse than putting sugar in the tank.
Sérieux ? C'est pire que de mettre du sucre.
Contact Katka. ask them if there's a miner.
Appelez Katka.
Cody Mantooth. on the missing list.
Demandez si un certain Cody Mantooth fait partie des disparus.
-I'll explain later. -You got it.
- Je vous expliquerai. - Ça marche.
-We want to discuss options. -Like what?
On a une proposition.
Laquelle ?
Like decreasing our numbers.
Réduire notre nombre.
I want to talk to the folks upstairs. I want to talk to the bosses.
Je veux parler à ceux d'en haut. à la direction.
You don't know tap code.
Tu connais pas le morse.
He does.
Lui. si.
You guys can't be serious.
Vous êtes pas sérieux ?
It's called triage. Hospitals do it all the time.
C'est le principe du tri. Tous les hôpitaux le font.
If we decrease our numbers by one-third. our oxygen window increases by--
En réduisant notre nombre d'un tiers. notre réserve d'oxygène...
We can do the math.
On sait calculer.
Hospitals are a bullshit analogy.
Ton analogie est pourrie.
Patients get triaged when it's determined they'd die anyway.
On ne trie les patients que s'ils sont déjà condamnés.
And what about these guys?
Regarde ces gars.
They're not going to make it till morning.
Ils ne passeront pas la nuit.
Well. no one's going for this.
Aucun de nous n'acceptera.
I agree. It's nuts.
Il a raison. C'est délirant.
-Say you're wrong. -Say we're not.
- Ça reste à voir. - C'est tout vu.
Say we put it to a vote.
On n'a qu'à voter.
What's he saying. Cody?
Qu'est-ce qu'il dit ?
They want to decrease our numbers.
Ils veulent réduire notre nombre.
Can't be serious.
C'est une blague ?
Looks serious to me. Claude.
Ça a pas l'air.
Nobody wants this. Barney. Don't make it personal.
On n'a pas le choix. c'est pas perso.
Hate to tell you. friend.
Dis à ton copain
this is about as personal as it gets.
que plus perso. tu meurs.
Have you guys seen yourselves?
Vous vous êtes vus ?
Barney. that compound fracture has sepsis in it.
Barney. ta fracture ouverte est infectée.
And you. Claude. how's that fever treating you?
Et toi. Claude. tu as une fièvre de cheval.
You're not going to make it another 12 hours.
Vous tiendrez pas 12 heures.
-What if we say no? -It's going to a vote.
Et si on refuse ?
On va voter.
That's like two foxes and a chicken voting on what's for dinner.
Autant faire voter une poule contre deux renards.
I always knew you were a prick. Mankins.
T'es pas qu'un enfoiré. Mankins.
I didn't know until now you were also a murderer.
Apparemment. tu es aussi un assassin.
"Suggest decreasing our number." What does that mean?
Ils parlent de réduire leur nombre.
Ça veut dire quoi ?
They mean decreasing their number.
Qu'ils vont réduire leur nombre.
-Well. how? -How do you think?
Comment ?
A votre avis ?
No.
Non.
What? No.
No. that's crazy. I'm not taking part in this.
C'est de la folie. Je m'y oppose.
We're not calling the shots down there. Fred.
Ce n'est pas nous qui décidons.
Hey. those trailers smacked down hard.
Le choc a été rude.
Gurty and I are going to go check the loads. then we'll push on.
On va vérifier la cargaison avant de reprendre la route.
How's she looking?
Ça donne quoi ?
Hey! Hey!
- Hey! - Help! Hey! Open the damn door!
Laissez-moi sortir.
- Help! Help! - Open the damn door!
Ouvrez !
Ouvrez. bon sang !
Hey!
Open this damn door!
Ouvrez !
Au secours !
Ouvrez la porte !
It was you.
C'était vous.
You piece of shit. "insurance actuary" my ass. What do you actually do for Katka?
Assureur. mon cul. Katka vous emploie pour quoi ?
Let's just say I work in a...
Disons que je travaille
different department of the company.
dans un autre service.
Yeah. the sewer.
Vous évacuez la merde.
Look. here's the rules.
Ecoute.
Je t'explique les règles.
You behave yourself.
Si tu es sage.
and you can stay in the restraints those idiot truckers put on you.
tu resteras sur ce siège où t'ont mise ces idiots de camionneurs.
But you get a little spirited. which I know is a problem for you people.
Mais si tu deviens trop fougueuse. ce qui est le défaut des...
gens comme toi.
and I will hog-tie you
je te ligote
and throw you in the rear.
et je te balance à l'arrière.
Yeah?
Mike. what's your status? No. it's Varnay. We're stuck in a storm.
- Mike. vous en êtes où ? - C'est Varnay.
I've got an answer on that Cody Mantooth...
On est dans une tempête !
I can't talk!
Je peux pas parler !
Please work. Please work.
Par pitié. allume-toi.
She's outfitted with a heater unit.
Il y a une unité de chauffage.
Hey. Gurty. how heavy do we think this double mill pipe is?
Gurty. à ton avis.
combien pèsent ces tuyaux ?
-Five mill double hundred. -Huh?
Cinq mille double cent.
Three...four...zero.
3...4... 0.
340 each?
340 chacun ?
Grab hold of the end of this one.
Attrape l'autre bout.
We're going to punch that out.
On va déloger ce machin.
Punch pipe the pin post.
Déloger au tuyau.
My thoughts exactly.
Exactement.
Easy.
Doucement.
One. two. three.
Un. deux. trois.
Yes!
Oh. no!
Non !
He took the phone. the pistol. our gear bags.
Il a pris le téléphone.
le pistolet et nos sacs.
And the Too.
Et tout.
And the what?
Et quoi ?
Tantoo.
Tan-tout.
Tantoo as well.
Tantoo aussi.
Let's figure this out.
On doit régler ça.
What's the matter with you?
Qu'est-ce que tu me fais ?
Ease off!
Relâche !
More!
Encore !
Hike up the pressure!
Augmente la pression.
Gurty!
Gurty !
I said. more!
Je te dis d'augmenter.
More!
Encore !
Geez.
Bon sang.
I said. more!
Je te dis d'augmenter.
-Mike! -Yeah. I see it.
Mike !
It's called a winch. Mike. welding's a winter snap!
Je suis pas aveugle. C'est un treuil.
La soudure a de la fièvre.
What?
Quoi ?
Welding's not cold!
Elle est pas froide.
Just do it!
Fais ce que je dis.
Do you know why we get fired?
Tu sais pourquoi on se fait virer ?
It's not your disability. It's your freaking attitude.
C'est pas à cause de ton handicap. c'est parce que tu es buté.
You probably didn't take orders before your disability.
Tu étais déjà
infoutu d'obéir avant ton invalidité.
I don't know what's going on here.
Je comprends rien à tout ça.
but that prick. he killed Goldenrod and he nearly killed us.
mais ce salopard a tué Goldenrod et il a failli nous tuer.
He pinned it all on Tantoo. who's out here to save her brother.
Il a mis ça sur le dos de Tantoo qui veut seulement
and we helped him.
sauver son frère et nous. on l'a aidé.
We have one chance. one chance
On a une chance
to get out of this and make this right.
et une seule de nous sortir de là
et de nous rattraper.
And you're not going to wreck it. Not this time.
Tu gâcheras pas tout. Pas cette fois.
Don't you dare touch that.
Je t'interdis d'y toucher.
Come on. come on. come on.
Allez !
She's coming free.
On se dégage !
What the hell was that?
C'était quoi. ça ?
Gurty? Gurty?
Gurty!
Gurty! Gurty!
Gurty. stay with me. Stay with me...
Accroche-toi.
Come on. Gurty. Come on. Breathe.
Allez. Gurty.
Breathe.
Respire.
Come on. Gurty. Work with me here.
Allez. Gurty. Fais un effort.
Oh. geez.
Dieu soit loué !
Gurty.
C'est bien.
Jesus. Here. pal. Here. pal.
Bon sang.
Tiens. mon grand.
Here. pal. I got you. I got you.
Tiens. Tout va bien.
I got you.
Tout va bien.
Gurty. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry I hit you.
Pardonne-moi.
I'm sorry. I didn't mean to.
Pardon de t'avoir frappé.
I'm sorry. Gurty.
Je ne voulais pas. pardonne-moi.
Mike...
Yeah. Sunken dreams. Gurty.
Nos rêves sont engloutis.
Sunken dreams.
Engloutis.
Yeah. It's eating at me too.
Ça me dépasse aussi.
Why would an employee of the company that hired us
Pourquoi un employé de la compagnie qui nous a embauchés
sabotage...?
saboterait-il...
They want us to fail. That's it.
Ils veulent qu'on échoue.
They want us to fail. I didn't see it.
C'est ça. Ils veulent qu'on échoue.
Je n'ai rien vu.
I've been too wrapped up in what's in this for us.
J'étais obnubilé par ce qu'on avait à y gagner.
Oh. now I'm angry.
Maintenant. j'ai la haine.
Let's get out of here.
En route.
It's not about money now.
On oublie l'argent.
This is personal.
C'est personnel.
PONT DE MANITONKA : 16 KM MINE DE DIAMANTS KATKA : 22 KM
Should be 20 minutes to the shoreline.
Plus que 20 minutes jusqu'à la rive.
Rig two's in the lake 20 klicks due south.
Le 2e camion y est resté.
Took the mechanic and the driver with it.
à 20 km au sud. avec le mécano et le chauffeur.
I told them not to store dynamite in the trailer
Garder de la dynamite
due to friction detonation. but they had other ideas.
dans leur remorque était dangereux avec les secousses. mais...
ils se sont obstinés.
Good.
Bien.
Good. That's good.
C'est bien.
How about the driver?
Et la fille ?
Well. she's alive. sir.
Elle est en vie. monsieur.
Put the cab through that guardrail up there.
Son camion va quitter la route là-haut.
Your story is she lost control.
Vous direz
qu'elle a perdu le contrôle
you dove for safety before it went over. -You clear? -Clear. sir.
et que vous avez sauté in extremis. Compris ?
Compris.
The miners' oxygen window closes in three hours.
L'oxygène des mineurs
so the press is going to be all over us.
sera épuisé dans 3 heures. Nous serons assaillis par la presse.
They need to be told our valiant rescue had a tragic end.
Nous devrons déclarer que notre convoi héroïque
a connu une fin tragique.
I'll make it happen. sir.
Je m'en occupe. monsieur.
Good. Good.
Bien.
You call me when it's done.
J'attendrai votre appel.
If you do this. it's on your head.
Vous devrez répondre de vos actes.
You want to blame someone. blame management.
Va dire ça à nos dirigeants.
What has management got to do with it?
Quel rapport avec eux ?
All those in favor. raise your-- Mankins!
- Ceux qui sont pour... - Mankins !
I asked you a question.
Réponds.
Because they made us cut the damn sensors. René.
Ils nous ont fait couper les détecteurs.
They what?
Quoi ?
They claimed the new quotas were killing them.
S'ils veulent tenir les quotas.
so they couldn't afford a shutdown.
ils peuvent pas fermer.
They said there was no chance of gas pockets this far north.
Selon eux. il pouvait pas y avoir
de poche de gaz par ici.
And they sweetened the deal.
On a eu une carotte.
How much?
Combien ?
Hundred dollars per man per month.
100 $ par tête et par mois.
You turned off the gas sensors for $100 a month?
Vous avez coupé les détecteurs pour 100 $ par mois ?
And anyone who blew the whistle gets shit-canned.
Si on l'ouvrait. on était viré.
None of that matters now. René.
Ça n'a plus d'importance.
Our oxygen is falling fast.
On va manquer d'oxygène.
There's a vote on the floor.
On doit voter.
All those in favor. raise your hands.
Pour : levez la main.
No.
Hey!
How much methane do you think is in here now?
Combien de méthane il y a ici ?
Huh?
These men are not the enemy.
Ce n'est pas eux l'ennemi.
The enemy's up there. Bullshit!
- L'ennemi est là-haut. - Des clous !
The enemy's asphyxiation.
L'ennemi. c'est l'asphyxie.
We're getting out of here together.
On sortira d'ici ensemble
or not at all.
ou pas du tout.
You're one stupid son of a bitch. René.
Tu es un putain d'abruti. René.
You too. Cody.
Toi aussi. Cody.
Maybe so. but this is how it's going to be.
C'est possible.
mais c'est nous qui décidons.
Right here.
Ici.
Let's clear the road.
Dégagez la route.
Ow!
Yeah. that's what I thought.
Je m'en doutais.
You're never gonna get away with this. There's gonna be an investigation.
Vous vous en tirerez pas. Il y aura une enquête.
That's the plan.
C'est prévu.
What is that?
C'est quoi ?
Ah!
Thanks.
Merci.
Mayday! Mayday!
SOS !
Mayday! Come in! Anybody. come in! Mayday! Mayday!
Répondez. quelqu'un !
SOS !
Mayday! Is anybody out there?
Quelqu'un m'entend ?
Tantoo. it's Mike.
Tantoo. c'est Mike.
We're coming up the Pass. -Where are you? -Approaching the upper traverse.
On approche du col. Où es-tu ?
I got Varnay behind me with others. They're all armed.
Sur la crête. Varnay me poursuit avec des types armés.
We've got two hours to get to Katka. I'm still pulling weight.
Il reste 2 heures de route et je traîne ma remorque.
-They're trying to stop us. -Yeah. we figured.
Ils sont après nous.
Oui. on l'a compris.
Cody always said that they cut corners with the methane regs. Those bastards. they caused the cave-in.
Cody disait qu'ils contournaient la réglementation.
now they're trying to cover it up.
L'accident. c'est leur faute et ils veulent le cacher.
Not going to happen.
Ça n'arrivera pas.
Just hang on. We're coming.
Tiens bon. On arrive.
Take them out so it will pass forensics.
Eliminez-les sans laisser d'indices.
No bullet holes. Do not discharge your weapons.
Pas d'impacts de balles. N'utilisez pas vos armes.
What?
Shit.
Merde.
Oh. come on. One more mile. We can do one more mile. Come on.
Encore 1.5 km. On va y arriver.
Yeah. we can do it. Come on.
On va y arriver.
Allez.
Pull over!
Arrêtez-vous !
Pull over now!
Arrêtez-vous tout de suite.
Pull over!
Arrêtez-vous !
Dernier avertissement !
If they were going to shoot us. they would've done it by now.
S'ils voulaient tirer. ce serait déjà fait.
Yeah. Good. Come on.
C'est ça.
Obéissez.
Ready. bro?
Prêt. frérot ?
Pull over now!
Arrêtez-vous !
Well. don't just stand there. Let's go.
Ne reste pas planté là. En route.
Come on. come on. don't stop. don't stop. Don't you dare stop. Come on.
Allez. bon sang. Je t'interdis de t'arrêter.
Don't do this to me. Don't... Don't do this.
Ne me fais pas ça.
Come on. keep going. Don't stop. don't stop! Come on. you piece of shit. Let's go.
Ne t'arrête pas ! Avance. gros tas de merde !
I'm sorry. I didn't mean it. I didn't mean it!
Excuse-moi. Je le pensais pas !
Don't think that I'm not going to use this on you!
J'hésiterai pas à tirer sur vous !
What's your game?
A quoi vous jouez ?
Oh. what. are you just going to stand there?
Vous allez rester là-bas ?
Yeah.
Oui.
This is the last wellhead. What are you going to do?
C'est la dernière tête de puits. Tu vas faire quoi ?
You going to push it the rest of the way? Because if you're going to make it to Katka
La pousser sur le reste du trajet ?
Si tu veux être à la mine
before your brother stops breathing.
avant que ton frère cesse de respirer.
that's what you're going to have to do.
c'est la seule solution.
The other drivers are going to come.
Les autres chauffeurs vont arriver.
The other drivers are dead.
Ils sont morts !
He ripped out my fuel equalizer.
Il a arraché ma durite d'essence.
Gurty can fix that.
Gurty va réparer ça.
We'll change out your fuel line and siphon enough juice to get you down to Katka.
On va siphonner notre réservoir pour que tu aies de quoi aller à Katka.
Listen...
Ecoute.
we...
we seriously misjudged you.
On s'est trompés à ton sujet.
Friends?
Amis ?
Yeah.
Oui.
Hey. how long do you think all this is going to take?
Ça va prendre longtemps ?
A couple of minutes. I know you're anxious -about your brother. -Yeah.
Quelques minutes. Je sais que tu penses à ton frère.
Cody's all I got. you know? It's kind of like you and yours.
J'ai que lui dans la vie. Tu connais ça.
Yeah.
Gurty's like that commercial.
Gurty est comme dans la pub :
Takes a lickin' but keeps on tickin'.
"Quand y en a plus. y en a encore."
That last can should do it.
Après ce bidon. ça suffira.
He saved my life. Give him a treat.
Il m'a sauvé la vie. Offre-lui un festin.
We can't stay here and we can't back up.
On ne peut pas rester là. ni reculer.
We'll have to outrun it.
On doit foncer.
-You're dreaming. -You got a better idea?
- Tu rêves. - Tu as une meilleure idée ?
Oh!
- Oh. - Uncouple the trailer. We got a wellhead to deliver.
Dételle la remorque. On a une livraison à faire.
Oh. geez.
Bon sang.
It's not as bad as it looks.
C'est moins méchant que ça en a l'air.
It's. uh...
It looks pretty bad. kid.
C'est assez vilain. petite.
-Just be fast about it. -Uh...
Vas-y d'un coup sec.
Like pulling out a wisdom tooth.
Comme pour une dent.
A wisdom tooth? Do I-- Do I look like a dentist?
Une dent ? J'ai une tête de dentiste ?
Aah!
Good girl. Good girl.
C'est bien.
Breathe. Breathe.
Respire.
That's it. Good girl. Good girl.
Voilà. C'est bien.
Gurty. come and help me!
Gurty ! Viens m'aider.
Good girl. Good girl.
C'est bien.
Come on.
Viens.
Hang tight.
Tiens bon.
Gurty and I are going to haul your trailer off the cliff.
On va remettre ta remorque sur la route.
hook up and head to that mine.
l'atteler et l'amener à la mine.
We still got 45 minutes.
Il nous reste 45 minutes.
Yeah.
Sir? Mine Safety down in Winnipeg wants René's laptops.
Monsieur. La sécurité minière
veut les ordinateurs de René.
Fred. Mine Safety gets the laptops when I say they get the laptops. all right?
La sécurité minière va devoir attendre. compris ?
We got a goddamn CEO to worry about.
On doit déjà gérer le PDG.
Yeah. well. you can tell him yourself. He'll be here in an hour.
Ça tombe bien. il est en route.
There is nothing in those e-mails that implicates us.
Il n'y a rien dans ces mails qui nous incrimine.
Everything was cash. so there's no paper trail.
On payait en cash. il n'y a aucune trace.
To the authorities. this just looks like another tragic mining accident.
Les autorités concluront à un tragique accident de mine.
Right in the morning. we open Tunnel 6.
Demain matin.
on ouvre le tunnel 6.
We remove the bodies.
on sort les corps.
We let the public hold their ritual funerals.
on laisse les familles vaquer à leurs rites funéraires.
We weather the obligatory "occupational hazard" debate.
on se plie à l'inévitable débat sur les risques du métier...
And we open back up.
et on reprend l'exploitation.
Business as usual.
Les affaires continuent.
Come on. Varnay. answer the goddamn phone.
Répondez. Varnay. bon Dieu.
Look. Gurty. we did it.
Regarde. on a réussi.
We did it!
On a réussi !
MINE KATKA : 12 KM
Mike. Mike.
Give me that pistol!
Donne le pistolet.
Gurty. you got to take the wheel.
Prends le volant.
Come on. You can do it.
Ça va aller.
Do not stop until you reach the mine. got it?
Ne t'arrête pas avant la mine. compris ?
Do not stop.
Ne t'arrête pas.
Hey. Kill him.
Tue-le.
Not for me. for my brother.
Pas pour moi. pour mon frère.
PONT DE MANITONKA ROUTE FERMÉE
CHARGE MAXIMALE : 34 TONNES
I've done this a thousand times.
Je l'ai fait mille fois.
Move. I can do it.
Pousse-toi. Je peux le faire.
Shit.
Merde !
Traction pads. Yes. go.
Plaques de roulage.
Fonce.
Go! Come on. come on.
Allez. avance.
Shit. Shit.
Merde.
Gurty. the cables are snapping! Let's go! Come on!
Les câbles lâchent. Vite !
Come on.
Allez !
Oh. shit. Oh. shit.
C'est pas vrai !
Gurty. shut the gate!
Ferme la grille !
Gurty!
Gurty?
Gurty. Gurty!
He saved the rig.
Il a sauvé la cargaison.
Oh. Jesus.
Bon sang !
Mike...
you...
Toi...
brother mine.
frère de moi.
My brother.
Mon frère.
Brother. Mine.
Frère de moi.
No. no. no. no...
No.
I'm sorry.
Pardon.
I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
Je suis désolé.
I'm so sorry.
Tellement désolé !
Deputy Minister. Jack Tager. vice president of operations.
M. le vice-ministre. Jack Tager. chargé des opérations.
George Sickle. general manager. -Tager. -Sir.
George Sickle. directeur général.
-Sickle. -How are you. sir? It's cold up here.
- Comment allez-vous ? - Fraîchement.
We have hot drink and food inside. sir.
On a de quoi vous restaurer.
How was the drive down from Gillam Airfield?
Le trajet depuis l'aéroport s'est bien passé ?
Cut the formalities. Sickle. Tell me the situation.
Trêve de politesses. Où en sommes-nous ?
Our last contact with the rescue team was 0300.
L'équipe de sauvetage a cessé tout contact à 15h.
Deputy Minister. how about you?
M. le vice-ministre.
Your man in Winnipeg. Heard anything? Negative.
votre homme à Winnipeg a-t-il eu des nouvelles ?
Négatif.
It's been 30 hours and the wellheads haven't arrived.
Ça fait 30 heures et les têtes de puits ne sont pas là.
I don't believe the men are going to get out of Tunnel 6 alive.
Les mineurs n'en sortiront pas vivants.
What's that?
C'est quoi ?
That's our emergency Klaxon.
La sirène d'alerte.
Oh. my God.
Bonté divine.
Hey. welcome to Katka. You McCann?
Bienvenue à Katka. Vous êtes McCann ?
Yeah.
Oui.
You need medical?
Des blessés ?
Everyone. on the double. We still have a chance.
Dépêchez-vous ! Il reste une chance.
We got another one. Get me the gurney. ASAP.
On en a un autre. Un brancard. vite.
There's no hurry.
Rien ne presse.
We need to get that wellhead unloaded and bolted down.
Il faut débarquer la tête de puits et la monter !
Let's go! Straight to the drill site. Go. go. go. go!
Au site de forage ! On se dépêche !
Wellhead team. let's go! You're up!
Equipe de forage. à vous !
Got it!
C'est bon !
Wellhead is tapped and sprung.
La tête de puits est en fonction.
All right. blasting team. Tunnel 6 on the double!
Equipe de dynamitage. foncez au tunnel 6 !
Young lady. you're in no condition-- I don't give a shit. Put a Band-Aid on it.
Vous êtes blessée. jeune fille !
I heard blasting. I'm going to find Cody. -Tantoo. -What?
Mettez-moi un pansement. je vais chercher Cody.
We're outside the oxygen window. We didn't make it in time.
On a dépassé leur fenêtre de survie. C'est trop tard.
Don't say that.
Ne dis pas ça.
Look. Gurty died so that the miners would live. okay?
Gurty est mort pour les sauver.
My brother is alive. I'm going to find him. Let's go.
Mon frère est vivant. alors amène-toi.
Someone's coming out!
Quelqu'un sort !
Cody?
Cody !
Oh. my God!
Cody. You're alive. - Oh. my God. - You saved my life.
Tu es vivant !
Tu m'as sauvé la vie.
I had help.
On m'a aidée.
Thank you.
Merci.
You paid them?
Vous les avez payés ?
You paid them to shut off their sensors?
Pour qu'ils coupent
leurs détecteurs ?
You're disgusting.
C'est répugnant.
Mr. McCann?
M. McCann.
I'm Deputy Minister of Natural Resources for Canada.
Je suis le vice-ministre
des Ressources naturelles.
I want to thank you. and offer condolences for your brother.
Mes remerciements et mes condoléances
pour votre frère.
The company has some papers for you to sign.
Il y a des formalités à régler.
We have a check for you. and the police need your statement.
Votre chèque et votre déposition pour la police.
Excuse me. Mr. McCann?
M. McCann ?
We found this with your brother's things.
Votre frère avait ça sur lui.
Thank you.
Merci.
THREE MONTHS LATER
TROIS MOIS PLUS TARD
-Hey! -Hey.
Salut.
Brand-new Kenworth. huh? Yup.
Un Kenworth flambant neuf.
It's a good color.
Chouette couleur.
In honor of Jim.
En hommage à Jim.
What you hauling?
Tu transportes quoi ?
Sporting goods. Oh. Ain't that the life.
Du matériel de sport.
Yup. No bosses. no punching time clocks.
C'est la belle vie.
Pas de patron.
pas de pointeuse.
-Good pay rates. -Yeah.
Ça paye bien.
Well. you find yourself pining for the ice road. you know where to find me.
Si tu fais la route de glace. préviens-moi.
Deal.
Ça marche.
Thank you. Mike.
Merci. Mike.
BABA-BAHUT
♪ We ain't got much ♪
♪ Where I come from ♪
♪ We all work hard ♪
♪ Don't bet on good luck ♪
♪ Ain't no easy street ♪
♪ Just some gravel And a blacktop ♪
♪ And we hold on to ♪
♪ Oh. everything we got ♪
♪ We got grit. we got guts ♪
♪ We got pride We got tough ♪
♪ Ain't no giving up Running through our veins ♪
♪ Backs to the wall We'll find a way ♪
♪ Never say quit Never say die ♪
♪ Play a little rough You're doggone right ♪
♪ Oh. knock us down We'll come back every time ♪
♪ Yeah. we got fight ♪
♪ We don't bark much ♪
♪ We just hang tight ♪
♪ Sometimes the underdog ♪
♪ Got the baddest bite ♪
♪ It's how we were born ♪
♪ How we were raised ♪
♪ From our boots To our last names ♪
♪ We got grit. we got guts ♪
♪ We got pride We got tough ♪
♪ Ain't no giving up Running through our veins ♪
♪ Backs to the wall We'll find a way ♪
♪ Never say quit Never say die ♪
♪ Play a little rough Yeah. you're doggone right ♪
♪ Knock us down We'll come back every time ♪
♪ Oh. knock us down ♪
♪ We'll come back Every time ♪
♪ Oh. we got fight ♪
♪ Hell. we got fight ♪
♪ Oh. oh ♪
♪ We got fight ♪
♪ I'm gonna rise ♪
♪ From the dust And the ashes ♪
♪ I reach for the sky ♪
♪ It's all coming down ♪
♪ This life I've been living ♪
♪ I'll leave on the ground ♪
♪ It's all coming down ♪
♪ As sure as this world ♪
♪ Won't stop turning around ♪
♪ Morning will bring ♪
♪ A brand-new beginning ♪
♪ A new song to sing ♪
♪ And the trumpet will sound ♪
♪ All around ♪
♪ And I'll see that sweet ♪
♪ John's soul coming down ♪
♪ It's all coming down ♪
♪ As sure as this world ♪
♪ Won't stop turning around ♪
Adaptation : Emmanuelle Boillot
Sous-titrage : HIVENTY
Sous-titres ENG + FRE fusionnés par Zorg2412